A variety of techniques are used for physeal-sparing anterior cruciate ligament  reconstruction; however, there is no clear consensus on the ideal surgical technique, the frequency of complications, and how to best avoid growth disturbance.
The purpose of this study was to compare outcomes and complications between over-the-top and all-epiphyseal ACL reconstruction techniques.
The hypothesis was that both physeal-sparing reconstruction techniques are efficacious, with similar risk of growth disturbance and complications.
The Embase and PubMed databases were queried for studies on ACL ruptures in the skeletally immature population from 1985 to 2018.
Full-text English studies were included (N = 160).
Studies reporting rerupture and/or complications after physeal-sparing ACL reconstruction, specifically growth disturbance, were included (n = 10).
Studies were separated into 2 groups: an all-epiphyseal group with femoral and tibial fixation points within the epiphysis and a group that had over-the-top femoral and tibial physeal-sparing reconstruction.
Complications not specific to the pediatric population were excluded.
Demographics, evaluation of skeletal maturity, surgical technique, growth disturbance, rerupture, and patient-reported outcome scores were collected.
Data were analyzed in aggregate.
The 10 studies included 482 knees.
The mean age was 12.0 years; 81% of patients were male; and mean follow-up was 47.7 months.
A total of 178 patients underwent all-epiphyseal reconstruction, and 298 had the femoral graft placed over the top.
The rerupture rate was 9.0% (16 of 178) in the all-epiphyseal group and 7.2% (14 of 195) in the over-the-top group, of which 82% required revision reconstruction.
Six patients had overgrowth in the all-epiphyseal group (mean, 1.8 cm) and 1 patient in the over-the-top group (1.5 cm).
Three angular deformities occurred, all of which were in the over-the-top group.
Both physeal-sparing ACL reconstruction techniques are successful.
Overgrowth was more common in the all-epiphyseal group and angular deformity in the over-the-top group.
Rerupture rates were similar between the groups.
The authors recommend standardization of skeletal age assessment and baseline lower extremity alignment films.