Previous research has shown that delays in pediatric anterior cruciate ligament  reconstruction are associated with increased prevalence of concomitant knee injuries and worse outcomes following surgery.
However, few studies have described factors that may contribute to these delays and adverse outcomes.
This study seeks to determine the effect of socioeconomic status on clinical outcomes following ACL reconstruction.A retrospective review of patients who underwent primary ACL reconstruction at a tertiary pediatric hospital between 2009 and 2015 was conducted.
Variables included chronologic, demographic, and socioeconomic data, and postoperative complications.
Socioeconomic status was measured using health insurance type and median household income levels derived from 2009 to 2015 US Census Bureau.A total of 127 patients (69 male, 58 female) were included.
The mean age at time of surgery was 15.0 years.
Overall, 68 patients had commercial insurance and 59 patients had government-assisted insurance.
The mean household median income for patients with commercial insurance was $87,767 compared to $51,366 for patients with government-assisted insurance.
Patients with government-assisted insurance plans demonstrated greater delays in time from injury to initial orthopaedic evaluation (P = .0003), injury to magnetic resonance imaging  examination (P = .021), injury to surgery (P < .0001), initial orthopaedic evaluation to surgery (P = .0036), and injury to return to play clearance, P = .044.
Median household income was significantly related to time from injury to MRI examination (P = .0018), injury to surgery (P = .0017), and initial orthopaedic evaluation to surgery (P = .039).
Intraoperatively, 81% of patients with government-assisted insurance had concomitant meniscal injuries compared 65% of patients with commercial insurance, P = .036.
Postoperatively, 22% of patients with government-assisted insurance were found to have decreased knee range of motion ("stiffness") compared to 9% of patients with commercial insurance, P = .034.Pediatric patients who have government-assisted plans may experience delays in receiving definitive injury management and be at risk for postoperative complications.
Our findings suggest a significant discrepancy in time to treatment as well as rates of concomitant knee injuries and postoperative complications between government and commercial insurance types.Level of Evidence: III.