The rate of secondary knee injuries after pediatric  (ACL) injury is uncertain, and previous studies are limited because of poor methodology.
To evaluate the incidence of new meniscal injuries since the initial diagnostic magnetic resonance imaging  of young adults who sustained a pediatric ACL injury.
In addition, to evaluate meniscal and cartilage injuries in the index knee and contralateral knee injuries on MRI at final follow-up (9.5 years).
Furthermore, to assess leg length and alignment based on long-leg radiographs.
Case series; Level of evidence, 4.
Study population at final follow-up included 47 young adults who sustained a pediatric ACL injury before age 13 years.
They were followed prospectively since the time of injury for a mean 9.5 years at final follow-up.
Imaging included diagnostic MRI of the index knee and 3.0-T MRI of both knees at 1-, 2-, and 9.5-year follow-up, in addition to long-leg radiographs at final follow-up.
Forty-three patients underwent active rehabilitation without ACL reconstruction initially; 4 were treated with initial ACL reconstruction.
At final follow-up, 27 (57%) had undergone ACL reconstruction.
Fourteen patients had meniscal tears in the index knee at final follow-up (prevalence, 30%).
The majority of these were in the same location as previously repaired tears (n = 9).
Between diagnostic MRI and final follow-up, 16 patients had sustained new meniscal tears to a healthy meniscus (incidence, 34%).
At final follow-up, meniscal injuries recorded at baseline or during follow-up were no longer visible and appeared healed in 17 patients (20 tears).
MRI at final follow-up showed cartilage injuries in the index knee of 13 patients (28%) and contralateral injuries in 8 patients (meniscus, n = 2; cartilage, n = 5; subchondral fracture, n = 1).
Two patients had a leg-length difference >15 mm, and 3 had side-to-side difference in knee alignment >5°.
The incidence of new meniscal tears after pediatric ACL injury was 34% during a mean follow-up period of 9.5 years.
At final follow-up, 27 patients (57%) had normal menisci, and none had developed knee osteoarthritis.
Primary active rehabilitation, close follow-up, and delayed surgery if needed may be a viable and safe treatment option for some pediatric ACL injuries.