As many as 30% of patients with knee pain seen in sports medicine clinics have complaints related to the patellofemoral joint.
There is a paucity of research available regarding patellofemoral injuries, mechanism of injury, and playing time lost in collegiate athletes.
To describe the rates, mechanisms, severity, and potential sex-based differences of patellofemoral injuries in collegiate athletes across 25 National Collegiate Athletic Association  sports.
Descriptive epidemiology study.
Data from the 2009-2010 through the 2013-2014 academic years were obtained from the NCAA Injury Surveillance Program and were analyzed to calculate patellofemoral injury rates, mechanisms of injury, time lost, and need for surgery.
Rate ratios and injury proportion ratios were used to quantify discernible differences between sex-comparable sports and timing of injury (ie, practice vs competition), respectively.
The overall patellofemoral injury incidence rate was 16.10 per 100,000 athlete-exposures .
Women's volleyball had the highest incidence of all sports (39.57 per 100,000 AEs).
Injuries were 66% more likely to occur in competition than during practice.
Female athletes experienced significantly more patellofemoral injuries than males in similar sports.
Patellar tendinitis accounted for 49.2% of all patellofemoral injuries and was the most common injury in 20 of 25 studied sports.
Patellar subluxation accounted for the most total days missed, and patellar dislocation had the highest mean days missed per injury (11.42 days).
Patella fracture was the most likely injury to require surgery (80%).
Patellofemoral injuries were most common in sports that require jumping and quick changes of direction, specifically women's volleyball, men's and women's basketball, and women's soccer.
The majority of patellofemoral injuries in this cohort were classified as patellar tendinitis caused by overuse.
Most injuries resulted in no competition or practice time lost.
This information may contribute to the development of prevention programs aimed at addressing the most prevalent types and mechanisms of injury in each sport to reduce the incidence of patellofemoral injury in these athletes.