The purpose of this study was to determine the degree of co-contraction as per electromyographic gamma-band intermuscular coherence of the quadricep (Q) and hamstring (H) muscles during single-leg squatting , and to assess the influence of sex and self-reported knee complaints on the association between knee injury history and medial and lateral Q-H intermuscular coherence.
Participants included 34 individuals who suffered a youth sport-related intra-articular knee injury 3-12 years previously, and 37 individuals with no knee injury history.
Surface electromyographic signals were recorded from medial and lateral thigh muscles bilaterally to determine the gamma-band (30-60 Hz) intermuscular coherence between medial and lateral Q-H muscle pairs during SLS.
Multivariable linear regression (α = 0.05) was performed to investigate the relationship between knee injury history (main exposure) and medial and lateral Q-H coherence (outcome) while accounting for the influence of sex and self-reported knee pain and symptoms (covariates).
The median age of participants was 25 (range 18-30) and 67% were female.
Q-H gamma-band coherence was present for 60-90% of legs.
Medial and lateral Q-H coherence was higher in females compared to males.
There was no evidence for an association between medial Q-H coherence, knee injury history, knee pain, or symptoms.
There was evidence for an association between knee injury history and lateral Q-H coherence, which was modified by sex such that previously injured males demonstrated reduced Q-H coherence compared to uninjured males.
These finding suggest that females demonstrate a more pronounced Q-H co-contraction strategy during a SLS than males regardless of knee injury history.
Further, that male who suffered a youth sport-related knee injury 3-12 years previously demonstrate less Q-H co-contraction during a SLS than uninjured males.
The mechanisms behind differences in neuromuscular control between males and females as well as previously injured and uninjured males require further investigation.