The burden of symptoms and risk of exacerbations are the main drivers of the overall assessment of the  (COPD) and the adequate treatment approaches per current Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease .
Physical activity has emerged as both functional outcome and non-pharmacological intervention in COPD patients, despite the lack of standardized measures or guidelines in clinical practice.
This study aimed to explore in more depth the 24-h respiratory symptoms, the  (PAL) and the relationship between these two determinants in stable COPD patients.
This was a multinational, multicenter, observational, cross-sectional study conducted in ten European countries and Israel.
Dedicated questionnaires for each part of the day (morning, daytime, night) were used to assess respiratory symptoms.
PAL was evaluated with self- and interview-reported tools [EVS (exercise as vital sign) and YPAS (Yale Physical Activity Survey)], and physician's judgement.
Patients were stratified in ABCD groups by 2013 and 2017 GOLD editions using the questionnaires currently recommended: modified Medical Research Council dyspnea scale and COPD Assessment Test.
The study enrolled 2190 patients (mean age: 66.9 years; male: 70.0%; mean % predicted FEV1: 52.6; GOLD groups II-III: 84.5%; any COPD treatment: 98.9%).
Most patients (> 90%) reported symptoms in any part of the 24-h day, irrespective of COPD severity.
PAL evaluations showed discordant results between patients and physicians: 32.9% of patients considered themselves completely inactive, while physicians judged 11.9% patients as inactive.
By YPAS, the overall study population spent an average of 21.0 h/week performing physical activity, and 68.4% of patients were identified as sedentary.
In any GOLD ABCD group, the percentage of inactive patients was high.
Our study found negative, weak correlations between respiratory symptoms and self-reported PAL (p < 0.001).
Despite regular treatment, the majority of stable COPD patients with moderate to severe disease experienced daily variable symptoms.
Physical activity level was low in this COPD cohort, and yet overestimated by physicians.
With evidence indicating the negative consequences of inactivity, its adequate screening, a more active promotion and regular assessment of physical activity are urgently needed in COPD patients for better outcomes.
NCT03031769 , retrospectively registered, 23 Jan 2017.