The efficiency of the application of normobaric interval hypoxic therapy and enteral oxygen therapy for the treatment of the patients suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease remains to be confirmed.
The objective of the present study was the identification of the pathophysiological mechanisms responsible for the efficiency of normobaric interval hypoxic therapy and enteral oxygen therapy in the patients presenting with a .
A total of 230 patients at the age from 45 to 60 years were examined.
All of them presented with  (COPD).
150 patients were given a course of normobaric interval hypoxic therapy and enteral oxygen therapy while the remaining 80 ones constituted the control group.
It was shown that the combined application of normobaric interval hypoxic therapy and enteral oxygen therapy provided an effective tool for the correction of the health status in the patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
This method allowed to improve arterial blood supply with oxygen, increase the blood hemoglobin level and its oxygen capacity, augment oxygen tension and content in the arterial blood.
The combination of the intake of oxygen cocktails and hypoxic therapy resulted in the improvement of metabolic processes in the lungs manifested as the alteration in the characteristics of the condensate of the exhaled air.
The decrease in the content of malondialdehyde gave evidence of the reduction of lipid peroxidation while the enhanced activities of glutathione peroxidase and superoxide dismutase in blood confirmed the activation of the antioxidant system.
The improved oxygen supply at all stages of its mass transfer along with the resulting improvement of oxygen utilization by the tissues was responsible for the reduction of hypoxia in the bronchial tree and lung tissue.
The present study confirmed the high effectiveness of the combined application of normobaric interval hypoxic therapy and enteral oxygen therapy for the rehabilitation of the patients presenting with .
Обоснование.
В настоящее время не доказана эффективность применения нормобарической интервальной гипокситерапии и энтеральной оксигенотерапии в лечении пациентов с  (ХОБЛ).
Цель исследования - выявить патофизиологические механизмы эффективности комплексного использования нормобарической интервальной гипокситерапии и энтеральной оксигенотерапии в реабилитации пациентов с ХОБЛ.
Материал и методы.
Обследованы 230 пациентов в возрасте 45-60 лет с ХОБЛ: 150 больных получили курс гипокситерапии и энтеральной оксигенотерапии, 80 человек вошли в группу контроля.
Результаты.
Комбинированное применение нормобарической интервальной гипокситерапии и энтеральной оксигенотерапии оказалось эффективным методом коррекции состояния пациентов с ХОБЛ.
Данный метод привел к улучшению поступления кислорода в артериальную кровь и потребления его тканями.
Комплекс процедур повысил содержание гемоглобина в крови, ее кислородную емкость, увеличил напряжение и содержание кислорода в артериальной крови.
Энтеральная оксигенотерапия и гипокситерапия привели к нормализации метаболических процессов в бронхолегочной системе, что наглядно видно по изменениям конденсата выдыхаемого воздуха.
О снижении перекисного окисления липидов и белков свидетельствовал уровень содержания малонового диальдегида.
Повышение антиоксидантной защиты характеризовалось увеличением содержания глутатионпероксидазы и супероксиддисмутазы в крови.
Комплексный метод обеспечил организм кислородом на всех этапах его массопереноса и привел к улучшению процессов утилизации кислорода тканями и уменьшению гипоксии в бронхолегочной системе.
Заключение.
Высокая эффективность комплексного применения интервальной гипокситерапии и энтеральной оксигенотерапии в реабилитации пациентов с ХОБЛ позволяет рекомендовать данные методы физиотерапии у этой категории больных.