Proinflammatory cytokine such as  (IL)-1β causes inflammation of articular cartilage.
In this current study, we explored the chondroprotective effects of long noncoding RNA  MALAT-1 on cell proliferation, apoptosis, and matrix metabolism in IL-1β-induced inflammation in articular chondrocytes.
Articular chondrocytes from knee joints of normal rats were isolated and cultured, followed by identification through observation of toluidine blue and COL II immunocytochemical stainings.
The proliferation of chondrocytes at passage 2 was detected by the 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyl-2H-tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay.
The inflammatory chondrocytes induced by 10 ng/mL IL-1β were observed and identified by toluidine blue and COL II immunocytochemical stainings.
pcDNA 3.1 and pcDNA-MALAT-1 were transfected in the chondrocytes.
Ultrastructure of chondrocytes was observed by using a transmission electron microscope.
The MTT assay was carried out to evaluate chondrocyte viability.
Hoechst 33258 staining and flow cytometry were adopted to assess chondrocyte apoptosis.
The chondrocytes at passage 2 with the biological characteristics of chondrocytes were used for subsequent experiments.
In IL-1β-treated chondrocytes, the growth rate of chondrocytes slowed down, the cells became narrow and long, the vacuoles were seen in the cells, and the morphology of the chondrocytes was irregular.
The toluidine blue staining and the immunohistochemical staining of COL II became weaker.
In response to IL-1β induction, articular chondrocytes showed reduced MALAT-1 expression; moreover, obvious cartilage injury was observed with decreased chondrocyte viability and Col II expression and elevated chondrocyte apoptosis, MMP-13 expression, and p-JNK expression.
With the treatment of pcDNA-MALAT-1, the cartilage injury was alleviated with increased chondrocyte viability and type II collagen (Col II) expression and reduced chondrocyte apoptosis, MMP-13 expression and p-JNK expression.
Taken together these results, lncRNA MALAT-1 blocked the activation of the JNK signaling pathway; thereby, IL-1β-induced inflammation in articular chondrocytes was reduced with enhanced chondrocyte proliferation and suppressed chondrocyte apoptosis and extracellular matrix degradation.