Musculoskeletal diseases and injuries are the most common cause of long-term pain and physical disability. Thus, every medical graduate should be able to perform a structured examination of the musculoskeletal system. Besides the see-one-do-one principle, other teaching methods have been proposed to be effective. The use of teaching associates offers an established, proven pathway for teaching examination skills in urology and gynecology. During the patient experience method, students are examined first, thus giving them an opportunity to feel the examination before performing it themselves. The objective of this study was to compare the efficiency of 3 distinct teaching methods for both knee and shoulder examination.
The study took place during obligatory knee and shoulder examination training. Participants received basic training, including a demonstration of the structured examination by a specialist in trauma surgery. Afterward, group 1 examined each other under professional supervision; group 2 students examined the teaching associates, followed by mutual examinations; and group 3 students were each examined by the instructor, followed by mutual examinations. The acquired competence was assessed in 5-minute practical assessments directly after training and again 5 weeks later.
The study was conducted at the medical faculty of Goethe University, Frankfurt, Germany.
Study participants were third-year undergraduate medical students completing their obligatory 3-week surgical training.
One hundred and forty-four students [group 1 (N = 53), group 2 (N = 46), and group 3 (N = 45)] participated in the first measurement, 92 students in the second measurement of the study. Directly after the training, group 2 and group 3 performed significantly better than group 1 regarding overall score (p < 0.001) and all 4 checklist parts (p < 0.001). At the second measurement, group 2 performed significantly better than group 1 regarding shoulder examination (p = 0.003) and significantly better than group 3 (p = 0.025) regarding knee examination.
The use of a teaching associate and the patient perspective can increase students' performance in knee and shoulder examinations.