Persistent quadriceps weakness and activation failure are common in individuals with anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction. A growing body of evidence indicates that this chronic quadriceps dysfunction could be partly mediated due to reduced corticospinal excitability. However, current rehabilitation approaches do not directly target corticospinal deficits, which may be critical for restoring optimal clinical outcomes after the surgery. This case study tested the feasibility of operant conditioning of torque responses evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to improve quadriceps function after ACL reconstruction.
Operant conditioning of motor evoked torque responses would improve quadriceps strength, voluntary activation, and corticospinal excitability.
Case Report.
Level V.
A 24-year-old male with an ACL reconstruction (6 months postsurgery) trained for 20 sessions (2-3 times per week for 8 weeks) to increase his TMS-induced motor evoked torque response (MEP torque) of the quadriceps muscles using operant conditioning principles. Knee extensor strength, voluntary quadriceps muscle activation, and quadriceps corticospinal excitability were evaluated at 3 time points: preintervention (pre), 4 weeks (mid), and immediately after the intervention (post).
The participant was able to successfully condition (ie, increase) the quadriceps MEP torque after 1 training session, and the conditioned MEP torque gradually increased over the course of 20 training sessions to reach about 500% of the initial value at the end of training. The participant's control MEP torque values and corticospinal excitability, which were measured outside of the conditioning paradigm, also increased with training. These changes were paralleled by improvements in knee extensor strength and voluntary quadriceps muscle activation.
This study shows that operant conditioning of MEP torque is a feasible approach to improving quadriceps corticospinal excitability and quadriceps function after ACL reconstruction and encourages further testing in a larger cohort of ACL reconstructed individuals.
Operant conditioning may serve as a potential therapeutic adjuvant for ACL rehabilitation.