In recent years, there is a growing interest in new medical applications of botulinum toxin, including pain control, osteoarthritis treatment, and wound healing. While clinical applications of botulinum toxin seem promising, existing evidence regarding the therapeutic effects is still inadequate. The aim was to assess the efficacy of a single injection of abobotulinumtoxin A into the knee joint cavity to reduce pain in elderly people. We carried out a single group clinical trial in a University Hospital. Thirty participants (24 women) more than 50 years of age with knee osteoarthritis were included. Diagnosis of osteoarthritis was based on clinical and radiologic findings. We gave a single injection containing 250 units of Dysport (= 100 units of botulinum neurotoxin type A) diluted with 5 ml of normal saline. The primary outcome measure was knee pain. The secondary outcome was the patients' opinion about their knee and associated problems measured with the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score. The outcomes were measured at the baseline and at 4 weeks after the intervention. Within-group comparisons based on the Knee injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Scores showed favorable results for joint pain and stiffness, sports, severity of symptoms, quality of life, and daily activities (all p-values < 0.001). Also, pain intensity, joint effusion, knee clicking and locking, and flexion-extension scores showed significant beneficial results (all p-values ≤ 0.005). We concluded that botulinum neurotoxin type A is an effective and safe initial treatment of knee osteoarthritis with clear clinical advantages. Patients' satisfaction, minimum adverse effects in addition to single-dose prescription make the toxin as a choice for the first-line therapy of osteoarthritis at least at the short-term in elderly people. The symptom relief increases the patient's compliance and willing to participate in other therapeutic programs. REGISTRATION: Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials (IRCT) website http://www.irct.ir/, a WHO Primary Register setup, with registration code: Irct ID: IRCT20180416039323N1.