Over the last few decades, the concepts of minimally invasive surgery and enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) protocols have been introduced into the field of total joint arthroplasty (TJA), and tranexamic acid (TXA) has been widely used in TJA. Modern-day surgical techniques and perioperative care pathways of TJA have experienced unexpected improvements. Recently, the necessity of the practice of ordering routine postoperative laboratory tests for patients undergoing primary TJA has been challenged, especially in the context of implementation of ERAS protocols in TJA. These studies have consistently suggested that routine postoperative laboratory tests are not necessary in modern-day primary, unilateral total hip arthroplasty (THA) or total knee arthroplasty (TKA), and laboratory tests after surgery should only be obtained for patients with risk factors. However, it remains unclear whether routine postoperative laboratory tests after THA and TKA remains justified in the Chinese patient population. Therefore, we developed this study to address this issue.
This retrospective cohort study will include adult patients who underwent primary unilateral THA or TKA and received multimodal perioperative care pathways according to ERAS protocols. The following patient data will be collected from the electronic medical record system: patients' demographics, preoperative and postoperative laboratory values, operation time, intraoperative blood loss, TXA use, tourniquet use, postoperative length of stay, and any medical intervention directly related to abnormal laboratory values. The main study outcomes are the incidence of acute anemia requiring transfusion and incidence of hypoalbuminemia requiring albumin supplementation. The secondary outcomes are the rates of acute kidney injury, incidence of abnormal serum sodium level, incidence of abnormal serum potassium level, and incidence of abnormal serum calcium level. These clinical data will be analyzed to determine the incidence of abnormal postoperative laboratory values following primary unilateral THA and TKA; to clarify the frequency of any medical intervention directly related to abnormal postoperative laboratory values; and to identify risk factors that predispose patients to have abnormal postoperative laboratory results.
Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (http://www.chictr.org.cn): ChiCTR1900020690.